Title: How I Made My External Display Usable with My MacBook

Using external monitors with Macs can be a bit problematic. I'd heard about this but I experienced it myself when I now started using my old 27 inch 1440p (2560x1440) monitor with my new MacBook. New MacBook models don't have HDMI ports anymore, only USB-C. I was hesitant to buy a USB-C to Display Port adapter to use my old monitor because I wasn't sure how well it'd work. I'd had some frustrating experiences with this monitor on Linux as well. But I didn't want the monitor to sit idle and collect dust, so I decided to try it and got an adapter. After connecting the monitor to the MacBook, I saw that with default settings everything was rendered tiny. It was barely readable. Then I changed the resolution to the half of the monitor's resolution (1280x720). Now it was the opposite. Everything was massive. It showed less content than the internal screen of the MacBook while the its size is the double of that of the MacBook because everything was taking up a ton of space. I also tried the resolutions in between but they made the UI very blurry. At this point, I was quite worried that I won't be able to use the monitor in a bearable way. I started researching some solutions and found an app called BetterDisplay. I wouldn't prefer to use third-party apps to solve this, especially closed-source ones, but I had no other option. So I tried out and it kinda worked. I was able to set the resolution to those middle ones (resolutions between 2560x1440 and 1280x720) and yet it still looked relatively crisp. After setting the resolution, I uninstalled BetterDisplay and surprisingly the display stayed the same. So I realized that it only modified some low-level macOS settings under the hood. After a little more research, I found an excellent script that did everything exactly right. It doesn't require installing anything. You just run the script, choose the right options for your display, change the external display resolution to a one that is HiDPI (script makes all resolution options between the resolution you chose in the script and the half of that resolution HiDPI), and it works. The end result is the same as BetterDisplay if not better. Furthermore, it allows you to set the resolution from the macOS System Settings menu unlike BetterDisplay. It simply changes your display configuration and makes other resolution settings that are not proportional to the resolution of your display also support HiDPI. I am talking about [one-key-hidpi](https://github.com/xzhih/one-key-hidpi). And here is [their shell script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xzhih/one-key-hidpi/master/hidpi.sh). If you are experiencing similar issues with external displays on your Mac, I highly recommend trying this script out. After all the shenanigans, I was finally able to get a decent looking screen like I had when I used Windows or Linux with the same monitor. I still think Windows looked a little better---probably because subpixel rendering since macOS doesn't support it anymore. It is nothing like the internal display of the MacBook but at least it is much larger and still looks decent. 
